Let's start with a problem I'm currently
exploring, dolphin communication.
Here's a spectrogram
of a dolphin whistle.
In actuality, dolphins have several
types of vocalizations, including burst
pulses and echolocation, but whistles
are the easiest to see in a spectrogram.
>> First,
let's talk about what a spectrogram is.
On this spectrogram, the x-axis is time,
and the y-axis is frequency.
The brightness of the pixels indicate
the amount of power in that frequency
band.
>> Since we are recording in the ocean
there's a lot of noise in the lower
frequencies.
5kHz and lower tends to have
a lot of boat and wave noise.
>> [SOUND]
>> However,
the whistles of the Atlantic spotted
dolphin tend to range from 5kHz-17kHz.
>> [SOUND]
>> These whistles can be heard up to 3
miles away under water.
>> Why do they whistle?
>> Probably for a lot of reasons.
But one thing we do know is that
dolphins have signature whistles that
act much like our names.
If a dolphin enters a new area and feels
like company, It whistles his signature
whistle, which helps its friends
know where it is and how to find it.
>> So
what are we seeing in this spectrogram?
>> To me it looks like the same
whistle repeated twice.
The whistle has two parts.
Our task is to be able to recognize
classes of whistles, so that our marine
mammal researchers can automatically
annotate their database of recordings.
>> Well, I see one problem already.
The second time the whistle is repeated,
it seems a little more drawn out.